docs: add docs to use Connect CA providers with Helm (#8464)
hashicorp/consul: website/pages/docs/k8s/operations/connect-ca-provider.mdx

```

We will provide this secret and the Vault CA secret, to the Consul server via the
`server.extraVolumes` Helm value.

```yaml
# config.yaml
global:
  name: consul
server:
  extraVolumes:
     - type: secret
       name: vault-config
       load: true
       items:
       - key: config
         path: vault-config.json
     - type: secret
       name: <vault CA secret name>
       load: false
connectInject:
  enabled: true
```

Finally, install the Helm chart with these values:

```shell-session
$ helm install consul -f config.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

Verify that the CA provider is set correctly:

```shell-session
$ kubectl exec consul-server-0 -- curl -s http://localhost:8500/v1/connect/ca/configuration | jq .
{
  "Provider": "vault",
  "Config": {
    "Address": "https://vault:8200",
    "CAFile": "/consul/userconfig/vault-server-tls/vault.ca",
    "IntermediateCertTTL": "8760h",
    "IntermediatePKIPath": "connect-intermediate",
    "LeafCertTTL": "72h",
    "RootPKIPath": "connect-root",
    "RotationPeriod": "2160h",
    "Token": "s.VgQvaXl8xGFO1RUxAPbPbsfN"
  },
  "State": null,
  "ForceWithoutCrossSigning": false,
  "CreateIndex": 5,
  "ModifyIndex": 5
}

> ```

Reviewer: I think we also need to document that to rotate the vault token you have to use the Consul API or CLI. You can't change the token in the secret.

Reviewer: Can we also add a section for secondary datacenters if federated?

They need to have access to the same vault server, `root_pki_path` needs to be set to the same path and intermedate_pki_path needs to be set to different paths, e.g.

```
primary:
          "root_pki_path": "consul-root-ca",
          "intermediate_pki_path": "west-us-2/consul-intermediate-ca"
secondary:
          "root_pki_path": "consul-root-ca",
          "intermediate_pki_path": "east-us-2/consul-intermediate-ca"
```

Author: Updated both.

Reviewer: Looks good. I'll step out now for the rest of the reviewers. Just wanted to make sure we had that in there.

Author: Thanks so much for the review!

---
layout: docs
page_title: Configuring a Connect CA Provider
sidebar_title: Configuring a Connect CA Provider
description: Configuring a Connect CA Provider
---

# Configuring a Connect CA Provider

~> NOTE: Instructions below should only be used for initially bootstrapping a cluster.
To update Connect CA provider on an existing cluster or to update any properties, such as tokens, of the CA provider,
please use the [Update CA Configuration Endpoint](/api/connect/ca#update-ca-configuration).

Consul has support for different CA providers to be used with the Consul Service Mesh.
Please see [Connect Certificate Management](/docs/connect/ca) for the information on the providers
we currently support.

> Generally, to configure a provider via the Consul Helm chart, you need to follow three steps:

Reviewer 2: Minor thing here, and its personal preference but I think this could start a new line 
```suggestion

Generally, to configure a provider via the Consul Helm chart, you need to follow three steps:
```

1. Create a configuration file containing your provider information.
1. Create a Kubernetes secret containing the configuration file.
1. Reference the Kubernetes secret in the `server.extraVolumes` value in the Helm chart.

Below we will go over this process for configuring Vault as the Connect CA.

> However, other providers can be configured similarly, aside from providing the appropriate `ca_config`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, other providers can be configured similarly by providing the appropriate `ca_config`
```

and `ca_provider` values for the provider you're using.

## Configuring Vault as a Connect CA

### Primary Datacenter

> To configure a Vault as a CA provider for Consul Connect,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure Vault as a CA provider for Consul Connect,
```
I am not sure if "a" is necessary here?

> first, create provider a configuration JSON file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
first, create a provider configuration JSON file.
```

          "root_pki_path": "connect-root",
          "token": "<vault token>",
          "ca_file": "/consul/userconfig/<vault CA secret name>/<vault CA secret key>"
        }
      ],
      "ca_provider": "vault"
    }
  ]
}
```

This example configuration file is pointing to a Vault instance running in the same Kubernetes cluster,
which has been deployed with TLS enabled. Note that the `ca_file` is pointing to the file location
based on the Kubernetes secret for the Vault CA.
We will provide that secret later in the Helm values for our Consul cluster.

Next, create a Kubernetes secret with this configuration file.

```shell-session
$ kubectl create secret generic vault-config --from-file=config=vault-config.json
```

We will provide this secret and the Vault CA secret, to the Consul server via the
`server.extraVolumes` Helm value.

```yaml
# config.yaml
global:
  name: consul
server:
  extraVolumes:
     - type: secret
       name: vault-config
       load: true
       items:
       - key: config
         path: vault-config.json
     - type: secret
       name: <vault CA secret name>
       load: false
connectInject:
  enabled: true
```

> Finally, install the Helm chart with these values:

Reviewer 2: Minor thing, but I'm wondering if we can link to an install page here, because we've skipped the helm repo step?
`/docs/k8s/installation/overview#installing-consul`

Not a necessary change by any means.

Author: Yeah, definitely!

---
layout: docs
page_title: Configuring a Connect CA Provider
sidebar_title: Configuring a Connect CA Provider
description: Configuring a Connect CA Provider
---

# Configuring a Connect CA Provider

~> NOTE: Instructions below should only be used for initially bootstrapping a cluster.

> To update Connect CA provider on an existing cluster or to update any properties, such as tokens, of the CA provider,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update the Connect CA provider on an existing cluster or to update any properties, such as tokens, of the CA provider,
```

please use the [Update CA Configuration Endpoint](/api/connect/ca#update-ca-configuration).

> Consul has support for different CA providers to be used with the Consul Service Mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consul has support for different certificate authority (CA) providers to be used with the Consul Service Mesh.
```

Please see [Connect Certificate Management](/docs/connect/ca) for the information on the providers
we currently support.

Generally, to configure a provider via the Consul Helm chart, you need to follow three steps:

> 1. Create a configuration file containing your provider information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Generate a vault token
1. Create a configuration file containing your provider information.
```

Author: These instructions are generic, so I'd prefer not to have vault-specific info here

1. Create a Kubernetes secret containing the configuration file.

> 1. Reference the Kubernetes secret in the `server.extraVolumes` value in the Helm chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Reference the Kubernetes secret in the [`server.extraVolumes`](/docs/k8s/helm#v-server-extravolumes) value in the Helm chart.
```

Below we will go over this process for configuring Vault as the Connect CA.
However, other providers can be configured similarly by providing the appropriate `ca_config`
and `ca_provider` values for the provider you're using.

## Configuring Vault as a Connect CA

### Primary Datacenter

To configure Vault as a CA provider for Consul Connect,
first, create a provider configuration JSON file.

> Please refer to [Vault as a Connect CA](/docs/connect/ca/vault) for the configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please refer to [Vault as a Connect CA](/docs/connect/ca/vault) for the configuration options. You will need to replace `<vault token>` with your token.
```

```shell-session
$ cat vault-config.json
{
  "connect": [
    {
      "ca_config": [
        {
          "address": "https://vault:8200",
          "intermediate_pki_path": "dc1/connect-intermediate",
          "root_pki_path": "connect-root",
          "token": "<vault token>",

>           "ca_file": "/consul/userconfig/<vault CA secret name>/<vault CA secret key>"

Reviewer: Can we set this to a concrete value? As I'm reading this I have no idea what I should be setting this to. We can recommend something.

        }
      ],
      "ca_provider": "vault"
    }
  ]
}
```

This example configuration file is pointing to a Vault instance running in the same Kubernetes cluster,
which has been deployed with TLS enabled. Note that the `ca_file` is pointing to the file location
based on the Kubernetes secret for the Vault CA.
We will provide that secret later in the Helm values for our Consul cluster.

Next, create a Kubernetes secret with this configuration file.

```shell-session
$ kubectl create secret generic vault-config --from-file=config=vault-config.json
```

We will provide this secret and the Vault CA secret, to the Consul server via the
`server.extraVolumes` Helm value.

```yaml
# config.yaml
global:

>   name: consul

Reviewer: 👏

server:
  extraVolumes:
     - type: secret
       name: vault-config
       load: true
       items:
       - key: config
         path: vault-config.json
     - type: secret

>        name: <vault CA secret name>

Reviewer: Where does this come from? I think we need more information on this. Maybe you can say "if Vault was installed on Kubernetes via its helm chart then this secret will be blah. If Vault is running outside of Kubernetes, you must create a Kubernetes secret with its CA by ... "

       load: false
connectInject:
  enabled: true
```

> Finally, [install](/docs/k8s/installation/overview#installing-consul) the Helm chart with these values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, [install](/docs/k8s/installation/overview#installing-consul) the Helm chart using the above config file:
```

When it said "with these values:" I expected values to be listed.

    "LeafCertTTL": "72h",
    "RootPKIPath": "connect-root",
    "RotationPeriod": "2160h",
    "Token": "s.VgQvaXl8xGFO1RUxAPbPbsfN"
  },
  "State": null,
  "ForceWithoutCrossSigning": false,
  "CreateIndex": 5,
  "ModifyIndex": 5
}
```

### Secondary Datacenters

To configure Vault as the Connect CA in secondary datacenters, you need to make sure that the Root CA is the same,
but the intermediate is different for each datacenter. In the `connect` configuration for a secondary datacenter,
you can specify a `intermediate_pki_path` that is, for example, prefixed with the datacenter
for which this configuration is intended.

```json
{
  "connect": [
    {
      "ca_config": [
        {
          "address": "https://vault:8200",
          "intermediate_pki_path": "dc2/connect-intermediate",
          "root_pki_path": "connect-root",
          "token": "<vault token>",
          "ca_file": "/consul/userconfig/<vault CA secret name>/<vault CA secret key>"
        }
      ],
      "ca_provider": "vault"
    }
  ]
}
```

Note that all secondary datacenters need to have access to the same Vault instance as the primary.

### Rotating Vault Tokens

> To rotate the Vault token in your CA provider configuration, you need to update the configuration file
> and call the [Update CA Configuration Endpoint](/api/connect/ca#update-ca-configuration).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the cluster is running, subsequent changes to the `ca_provider` config are **ignored**–even if `consul reload` is run or the servers are restarted.

To update any settings under this key, you must use Consul's [Update CA Configuration](/api/connect/ca#update-ca-configuration) API or the [`consul connect ca set-config`](https://www.consul.io/docs/commands/connect/ca#set-config) command.
```
